In this lesson we are going to explore a alternative and so much more popular method of handling side
effects in redux.
Using a library called redux saga but before we do we're gonna take a deeper dive into what it is these
asynchronous libraries actually do.
So we've already explored are redux thunk where we can pass a function that allows us to dispatch inside
of it and then redux will handle actually firing these multiple actions that we write.
But what's actually happening is that inside of our redux we have this thunk library that we apply as
a middleware and this thunk is what allows the reader's store to dispatch functions instead of just
actions or action objects as we're used to seeing.
How does this actually work.
Well when we go back to our diagram of redux.
Just a quick refresher we have our root reducer which represents our application state and it's composed
of all these other reducer.
We pull stay off of this and pass them into our respective components as props using selectors these
components then fire actions and these actions will then update the corresponding reducer so this flow
was already incredibly familiar with because we've written it a couple of times now.
So now hopefully this flow makes a lot more sense when we look at it.
But what do libraries like redux thunk middleware actually do well.
If we go over to this image this is a bit of a more simplified flow except it includes now these middleware.
As well as our sagas.
But for now just ignore this portion of it.
As we see we have components that dispatch actions and what happens to these actions before they actually
make it to the reducer is they hit these middleware.
And these window wares include our thanks they include our sagas and they also include redux longer
now as we remember in our code base in our store J.S. what we do is we actually apply the logger into
our middleware as array and then we apply the middleware.
Same with our thunk and same with read saga when we bring it in.
We're gonna have to put it into these middleware.
In order for our store when it's an initiated to apply it into its middleware but what's actually happening
is that before an action gets passed to the producers for it to update these middleware as well take
it and possibly perform some modification or do something whatever we want to write with middleware
or whatever these libraries do.
The main idea is that middleware catches the action before it hits the reducer.
In fact it's possible for middleware to catch actions and then throw them away so that they never actually
reach our producers completely possible.
What logger does is it simply catches the actions and it logs out data using console log and then it
shows the format of what our state was before the action and after the action.
And that's all logger does it's able to just catch actions before it hits our producers and then log
it out.
Now folks are pretty much just a piece of middleware that allows actions to come in as functions.
And then if its a function the thunk will just invoke the function because we have dispatch in the function
funk we'll just pass those new dispatch actions into the reduced hours as we did in our thumb function
right.
We passed this function that has to dispatch calls right first our photo collection start and then after
our collection rough dog get resolves we dispatch another action.
Well when we pass this action into our middleware right because the action comes in as a as a function
well thunk will take it and say oh this is a function.
This isn't an object.
This isn't an object of the type in a payload.
What I'm going to do with this function is I'm going to invoke it the moment I invoke it whenever I
get a dispatch inside of this action function.
I'm then going to dispatch the actual action that comes out of each dispatch call whenever it happens.
So the thumb comes in.
Right.
Our function comes in.
It sees the first dispatch and it passes that action in and then it calls the get to our fire store.
It comes back with the data.
After a certain amount of time.
Right.
And then it calls the second dispatch and then it dispatches that new get collections success call into
our reducer.
So that's all the fundamental where does but sagas sagas are different.
We're going to explore the code of how sagas work because it's definitely new concepts.
But conceptually I just want you to think about one thing what saga so that we understand why we write
the code the way we do now the way you can look at a saga is like it's a function that conditionally
runs and the condition that it depends on when it runs is based on whether or not a specific action
is coming into the saga middleware.
So imagine a function that is listening for our fetch collections start action unless that action fires
that saga does not execute i.e. that function does not execute the main idea with sagas is that there
can be multiple sagas listening for multiple different actions or the same action but they're just pieces
of code that do not run until they hear the action that they're listening for when they do they can
do all kinds of logic so they can trigger other actions which go back into our middleware and continue
into our producers.
So other sagas can also be listening for actions that come out of sagas or they can render any kind
of additional API logic right.
They can go to the back and fetch some data use that data and dispatch actions to update reduced hours.
But the main idea with sagas is that they handled this idea of side effects and I know that sounds like
a fancy term but we've actually written a lot of side effects already all side effects are are either
API calls to a back end rights or some kind of asynchronous code or something that triggers an impure
reaction.
So what is that term impure.
Well let's open up the console and we can actually explore this concept.
Inside of react we write these things that we've all written numerous times called functions and we
can have a function called add numbers which is equal to a function that gets to values.
And all it does is it returns the value of adding them together if I call this function add numbers
with the numbers 3 and 3 and unforced all right I will always get seven no matter how many times I call
this function my value will never change because my function is pure when my function is pure no matter
what no matter how many times I call my function as long as the parameters are the exact same I will
always get the exact same output in order for a function to be impure.
It means that if I were to call the function with the same arguments I could end up with a different
outcome.
Now how does that happen.
Well let's imagine that we have some variable called num right.
In fact let's use a let let num equals 5.
If I make a new one called add new numbers right as my function that still takes a and b but instead
what it returns is num plus a plus b Well theoretically the first time I call this with 3 and 4 I'm
going to get twelve.
The only problem is that we can now suddenly change the NUM value to 8.
And now if I call 3 or 4 I get a different value.
My function is not aware nor is it the one that sets some variable of num that it's dependent on to
calculate its output because the NUM exists in the scope outside of my function.
My function has access to it and it depends on it to calculate the value it will return but it doesn't
control it.
And for that reason this function is impure.
It has an external dependency.
My function is impure because it does not always return the exact same output regardless of me constantly
passing it the same input.
But this is pretty much what sagas are designed to handle in our code.
Anything that requires us to make API requests or possibly handle something that might be impure.
The idea is that you move it out in two sagas any asynchronous activity that happens inside of our application
that is not related to our component state but rather possibly related to the application as a whole
or some part of the application should be moved into a saga.
And that's also why it makes sagas both more complicated but also extremely powerful because we now
move some of the features and the way that we've architected our application in to these sagas to handle
it gives redux a much larger responsibility in our application be on just storing what our state is
it delegates to it more responsibilities related to things that could be impure or related to more and
more of our asynchronous activity.
Now I know it's very theoretical but once we convert our redux thunk code over to sagas and use sagas
to handle asynchronous and impure functionality inside of our application you'll see why sagas are so
powerful now in the next lesson.
I'm not going to write any saga code yet we actually have to explore the underlying technology of what
sagas are built on.
So we'll dive into that in the next lesson.